sql: add the mapping table for converting oracle functions to tidb functions (#10582)
pingcap/docs: oracle-functions-to-tidb.md

| Get the length of a string | `LENGTH(str)` | `CHAR_LENGTH(str)` | |
| Get sub strings | `SUBSTR('abcdefg',0,2) = 'ab'`<br/> `SUBSTR('abcdefg',1,2) = 'ab'` | `SUBSTRING('abcdefg',0,2) = ''`<br/>`SUBSTRING('abcdefg',1,2) = 'ab'` | <li>In Oracle, the starting position 0 has the same effect as 1. </li><li>In TiDB, the substring starting from 0 is null. If you need to start from the beginning of the string, you should start from 1.</li>|
| The position of the string in the source string | `INSTR('abcdefg','b',1,1)` | `INSTR('abcdefg','b')` | Search from the first character of the string 'abcdefg' and return the position of the first occurrence of the 'b' string. |
| The position of the string in the source string| `INSTR('stst','s',1,2)` | `LENGTH(SUBSTRING_INDEX('stst','s',2)) + 1` | Search from the first character of 'stst' and return the second occurrence of the 's' character. |
| The position of the string in the source string | `INSTR('abcabc','b',2,1)` | `LOCATE('b','abcabc',2)` | Search from the second character of the string `abcabc` and return the first occurrence of the character `b`. |

> | Get the interval months between dates | `MONTHS_BETWEEN(ENDDATE,SYSDATE)` | `TIMESTAMPDIFF(MONTH,SYSDATE,ENDDATE)` | The results of `MONTHS_BETWEEN()` in Oracle and `TIMESTAMPDIFF()` in TiDB are different. `TIMESTAMPDIFF()` keeps months only in integer. Note that the parameters in the two functions are in opposite positions. |

Author: ```suggestion
| Get the number of months between dates | `MONTHS_BETWEEN(ENDDATE,SYSDATE)` | `TIMESTAMPDIFF(MONTH,SYSDATE,ENDDATE)` | The results of `MONTHS_BETWEEN()` in Oracle and `TIMESTAMPDIFF()` in TiDB are different. `TIMESTAMPDIFF()` keeps months only in integer. Note that the parameters in the two functions are in opposite positions. |
```

| Convert ASCII values to corresponding characters | `CHR(n)` | `CHAR(n)` | The tab (`CHR(9)`), line feed (`CHR(10)`), and carriage return (`CHR(13)`) characters in Oracle correspond to `CHAR(9)`, `CHAR(10)`, and `CHAR(13)` in TiDB. |

## Syntax differences

This section describes some syntax differences between Oracle and TiDB.

### String syntax

- Oracle: strings can only be enclosed in single quotes (''). For example `'a'`
- TiDB: Strings can be enclosed in single quotes ('') or double quotes (""). For example, `'a'` and `"a"`

### Difference between `NULL` and an empty string

- Oracle does not distinguish between `NULL` and the empty string `''`, that is, `NULL` is equivalent to `''`.
- TiDB distinguishes between `NULL` and the empty string `''`. 

### Read and write to the same table in an `INSERT` statement

Oracle supports reading and writing to the same table in the `INSERT` statement. For example:

```sql
INSERT INTO table1 VALUES (feild1,(SELECT feild2 FROM table1 WHERE...))
```

TiDB does not support reading and writing to the same table in `INSERT` statements. For example:

```sql
INSERT INTO table1 VALUES (feild1,(SELECT T.fields2 FROM table1 T WHERE...))
```

> ### Get the first n pieces of data

Author: ```suggestion
### Get the first n rows of data
```

> - Oracle gets the first n pieces of data by `ROWNUM <= n`. For example `ROWNUM <= 10`.

Author: ```suggestion
- Oracle gets the first n rows of data by `ROWNUM <= n`. For example `ROWNUM <= 10`.
```

> - TiDB gets the first n pieces of data by `LIMIT n`. For example `LIMIT 10`. The Hibernate Query Language (HQL) running SQL statements with `LIMIT` results in an error. You need to change the Hibernate statements to SQL statements.

Author: ```suggestion
- TiDB gets the first n rows of data by `LIMIT n`. For example `LIMIT 10`. The Hibernate Query Language (HQL) running SQL statements with `LIMIT` results in an error. You need to change the Hibernate statements to SQL statements.
```

---
title: Mappings between Functions and Syntax of Oracle and TiDB
summary: Learn the mappings between functions and syntax of Oracle and TiDB
---

# Mappings between Functions and Syntax of Oracle and TiDB

This document describes the mappings between functions and syntax of Oracle and TiDB. It helps you find the corresponding TiDB functions based on the Oracle functions, and understand the syntax differences between Oracle and TiDB.

> **Note:**
>
> The functions and syntax in this document are based on Oracle 12.2.0.1.0 and TiDB v5.4.0. They might be different in other versions.

## Mappings between some Oracle and TiDB functions

The following table shows the mappings between some Oracle and TiDB functions.

| Function | Oracle syntax | TiDB syntax | Note |
|---|---|---|---|

> | Convert data types | <li>`TO_NUMBER(key)`</li><li>`TO_CHAR(key)`</li> | `CONVERT(key,dataType)` | TiDB supports converting `BINARY`, `CHAR`, `DATE`, `DATETIME`, `TIME`, `SIGNED INTEGER`, `UNSIGNED INTEGER` and `DECIMAL` types. |

Author: ```suggestion
| Convert data types | <li>`TO_NUMBER(key)`</li><li>`TO_CHAR(key)`</li> | `CONVERT(key,dataType)` | TiDB supports converting to the following types: `BINARY`, `CHAR`, `DATE`, `DATETIME`, `TIME`, `SIGNED INTEGER`, `UNSIGNED INTEGER` and `DECIMAL`. |
```

| Convert a string type to a date type | <li>`TO_DATE('2021-05-28 17:31:37','yyyy-MM-dd hh24:mi:ss')`</li><li>`TO_DATE('2021-05-28','yyyy-MM-dd hh24:mi:ss')`</li> | <li>`STR_TO_DATE('2021-05-28 17:31:37','%Y-%m-%d %H:%i:%s')`</li><li>`STR_TO_DATE('2021-05-28','%Y-%m-%d%T')` </li> | TiDB format strings are case-sensitive.  |
| Get the current system time (precision to the second) | `SYSDATE` | `NOW()` | |
| Get the number of days between `date1` and `date2` | `date1 - date2` | `DATEDIFF(date1, date2)` | |
| Increase or decrease date by `n` days  | `DATEVAL + n` | `DATE_ADD(dateVal,INTERVAL n DAY)` | `n` can be a negative value.|
| Increase or decrease date by `n` months | `ADD_MONTHS(dateVal,n)`| `DATE_ADD(dateVal,INTERVAL n MONTH)` | `n` can be a negative value. |
| Get the date (precision to the date) | `TRUNC(SYSDATE)` | <li>`CAST(NOW() AS DATE)`</li><li>`DATE_FORMAT(NOW(),'%Y-%m-%d')`</li> | In TiDB, `CAST` and  `DATE_FORMAT` return the same result. |

> | Get the month of the date | `TRUNC(SYSDATE,'mm')` | `DATE_ADD(CURDATE(),interval - day(CURDATE()) + 1 day)`  | |

Author: ```suggestion
| Get the first date of the month | `TRUNC(SYSDATE,'mm')` | `DATE_ADD(CURDATE(),interval - day(CURDATE()) + 1 day)`  | |
```

> | Round down a value | `TRUNC(2.136) = 2`<br/> `TRUNC(2.136,2) = 2.14` | `TRUNCATE(2.136,0) = 2`<br/> `TRUNCATE(2.136,2) = 2.14` |  |

Author: ```suggestion
| Truncate a value | `TRUNC(2.136) = 2`<br/> `TRUNC(2.136,2) = 2.14` | `TRUNCATE(2.136,0) = 2`<br/> `TRUNCATE(2.136,2) = 2.14` |  |
```

| Combine the strings `a` and `b` | `'a' \|\| 'b'` | `CONCAT('a','b')` | |

> | Get the next value in a sequence | `SEQUENCENAME.NEXTVAL` | `NEXTVAL(sequenceName)` | |

Author: ```suggestion
| Get the next value in a sequence | `SEQUENCENAME.NEXTVAL` | `NEXTVAL(SEQUENCENAME)` | |
```

| `NVL2()` | `NVL2(key, val1, val2)`  | `IF(key is NULL, val1, val2)` | If the value of the field is not `NULL`, it returns the value of `val1`; otherwise, it returns the value of `val2`. |
| `DECODE()` | <li>`DECODE(key,val1,val2,val3)`</li><li>`DECODE(value,if1,val1,if2,val2,...,ifn,valn,val)`</li> | <li>`IF(key=val1,val2,val3)`</li><li>`CASE WHEN value=if1 THEN val1 WHEN value=if2 THEN val2,...,WHEN value=ifn THEN valn ELSE val END`</li> | <li>If the value of the field is equal to val1, then it returns val2; otherwise it returns val3.</li><li>When the field value satisfies the condition 1 (if1), it returns val1. When it satisfies the condition 2 (if2), it returns val2. When it satisfies the condition 3 (if3), it returns val3.</li> |
| Get the length of a string | `LENGTH(str)` | `CHAR_LENGTH(str)` | |
| Get sub strings | `SUBSTR('abcdefg',0,2) = 'ab'`<br/> `SUBSTR('abcdefg',1,2) = 'ab'` | `SUBSTRING('abcdefg',0,2) = ''`<br/>`SUBSTRING('abcdefg',1,2) = 'ab'` | <li>In Oracle, the starting position 0 has the same effect as 1. </li><li>In TiDB, the substring starting from 0 is null. If you need to start from the beginning of the string, you should start from 1.</li>|

> | Search a string for substrings | `INSTR('abcdefg','b',1,1)` | `INSTR('abcdefg','b')` | Search from the first character of the string 'abcdefg' and return the position of the first occurrence of the 'b' string. |
> | Search a string for substrings| `INSTR('stst','s',1,2)` | `LENGTH(SUBSTRING_INDEX('stst','s',2)) + 1` | Search from the first character of 'stst' and return the second occurrence of the 's' character. |
> | Search a string for substrings | `INSTR('abcabc','b',2,1)` | `LOCATE('b','abcabc',2)` | Search from the second character of the string `abcabc` and return the first occurrence of the character `b`. |

Author: ```suggestion
| The position of the string in the source string | `INSTR('abcdefg','b',1,1)` | `INSTR('abcdefg','b')` | Search from the first character of the string 'abcdefg' and return the position of the first occurrence of the 'b' string. |
| The position of the string in the source string| `INSTR('stst','s',1,2)` | `LENGTH(SUBSTRING_INDEX('stst','s',2)) + 1` | Search from the first character of 'stst' and return the second occurrence of the 's' character. |
| The position of the string in the source string | `INSTR('abcabc','b',2,1)` | `LOCATE('b','abcabc',2)` | Search from the second character of the string `abcabc` and return the first occurrence of the character `b`. |
```

| Get the interval months between dates | `MONTHS_BETWEEN(ENDDATE,SYSDATE)` | `TIMESTAMPDIFF(MONTH,SYSDATE,ENDDATE)` | The results of `MONTHS_BETWEEN()` in Oracle and `TIMESTAMPDIFF()` in TiDB are different. `TIMESTAMPDIFF()` keeps months only in integer. Note that the parameters in the two functions are in opposite positions. |
| Merge columns into rows | `LISTAGG(CONCAT(E.dimensionid,'---',E.DIMENSIONNAME),'***') within GROUP(ORDER BY  DIMENSIONNAME)` | `GROUP_CONCAT(CONCAT(E.dimensionid,'---',E.DIMENSIONNAME) ORDER BY DIMENSIONNAME SEPARATOR '***')` | Combine a column of fields into one row and split them according to the `***` notation. |
| Get the current time (precision to the second) | `SYSTIMESTAMP` | `CURRENT_TIMESTAMP(6)` | |
| Convert ASCII values to corresponding characters | `CHR(n)` | `CHAR(n)` | The tab (`CHR(9)`), line feed (`CHR(10)`), and carriage return (`CHR(13)`) characters in Oracle correspond to `CHAR(9)`, `CHAR(10)`, and `CHAR(13)` in TiDB. |

## Syntax differences

This section describes some syntax differences between Oracle and TiDB.

> ### Add an alias for a table in the DELETE statement
> 
> Oracle supports adding an alias for a table in the DELETE statement. For example:
> 
> ```sql
> DELETE FROM test t WHERE t.xxx = xxx
> ```
> 
> TiDB does not support adding an alias for a table in the DELETE statement. For example:
> 
> ```sql
> DELETE FROM test WHERE xxx = xxx
> ```
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

### String syntax

- Oracle: strings can only be enclosed in single quotes (''). For example `'a'`
- TiDB: Strings can be enclosed in single quotes ('') or double quotes (""). For example, `'a'` and `"a"`

### Difference between `NULL` and an empty string

- Oracle does not distinguish between `NULL` and the empty string `''`, that is, `NULL` is equivalent to `''`.

> - TiDB distinguishes between `NULL` and the empty string `''`. In TiDB, you need to convert `''` to `NULL`.

Author: ```suggestion
- TiDB distinguishes between `NULL` and the empty string `''`. 
```

### Read and write to the same table in an `INSERT` statement

Oracle supports reading and writing to the same table in the `INSERT` statement. For example:

```sql
INSERT INTO table1 VALUES (feild1,(SELECT feild2 FROM table1 WHERE...))
```

TiDB does not support reading and writing to the same table in `INSERT` statements. For example:

```sql

> INSERT INTO table1 VALUES（feild1,(SELECT T.fields2 FROM table1 T WHERE...)

Author: ```suggestion
INSERT INTO table1 VALUES (feild1,(SELECT T.fields2 FROM table1 T WHERE...))
```
